In this demo,
I'm going to show you how Pod Anti-Affinity works.
So I'm in the Affinity folder
and here I have an Pod Anti-Afinity yaml file.
I begin my first deployment to Pod Affinity
and then I have a second one, Pod Affinity two,
that is the same one as the previous one.
So it's Pod Affinity, app, in Pod Affinity one.
So this one will be collocated to the first pod,
is the Redis container and then I have another one,
the Pod Affinity three and the Pod Affinity three
has Pod Anti-Affinity.
And Anti-Affinity is, if the app is Pod Affinity one,
then don't scale on the same hostname.
So let's try this one.
Kube C-T-L create, Pod Anti-Affinity.
There's a fourth one but I will first show you the third one
and then I will show you how the fourth one works.
Kube C-T-L get Pod, minus O wide.
Pod Affinity one is running on one-eight-one.
Pod Affinity two, those three are running, all of them,
on one-eight-one because these are collocated
and the next one, the Pod Affinity three,
also three of them are scaled on another node
because they cannot be on the same node as Pod Affinity one.
So this is all working.
This one, Pod Affinity three is using Anti-Affinity
to make sure that it doesn't get held
on the same node as Pod Affinity one.
Let's have a look at the Pod Affinity four.
I have one more here.
This Pod Affinity four assess.
I have Pod Anti-Affinity, the match expression is,
app in Pod Affinity one and three,
so this pod cannot be scaled on a node
of the same node host name of Pod Affinity one
and Pod Affinity three.
So if you have a look at kube C-T-L get nodes,
you only have two nodes here.
This is the first node.
Pod Affinity one is running on it
and then we have the second node, that ends with 46.
And we have Pod Affinity three running on it.
So Pod Affinity four needs to be not on...
a node where Pod Affinity one is running
and not on a node where Pod Affinity three is running.
So there are no nodes, because I only have two nodes.
So if I do kube C_T_L describe Pod, Pod Affinity four,
then zero out of three nodes are available.
The first one is a master so I cannot scale on that one
and the other ones are because of the Anti-Affinity rule.
I cannot scale on any node because it's just not possible.
Now the Pod doesn't scale because we used the required flag.
We have log Pod Anti-Affinity dot yaml,
we used required during scheduling ignored during execution.
So let's say if we change this into the preferred one,
what would happen then?
I have this already prepared
in Pod Anti-Affinity five dot yaml.
Here we have Pod Affinity five defined
and the only thing that's different here, is that I have
preferred during scheduling ignored during execution.
You have to give the weight,
you have to use a cue of Pod Affinity term
and then we have a label sector.
Expression is exactly the same.
App in Pod Affinity one and three.
So because this is Anti-Affinity
if there's already a Pod one or Pod three
it cannot be scaled on that node
because we're using host name as topology key.
Let's run this.
Kube C-T-L create Pod Anti-Affinity number five dot yaml.
Let's have a look at our pods, O wide.
This is our four, it's pending and this is our fifth,
which is running as we can see,
it is now running on the same node as our pod affinity two
because we have preferred instead of required,
so it still gets scaled even though it's not an ideal match.
So that's it for Pod Anti-Affinity.
So you can play around with it a bit
and if you have any questions you can always use the Q and A
to ask me questions about Pod Affinity
or Pod Anti-Affinity or if you get stuck somewhere.